readme.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Octokit.GraphQL.NET</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/actions/workflows/dotnetcore.yml">
    <img src="https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/actions/workflows/dotnetcore.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI Status" /></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://codecov.io/gh/octokit/octokit.graphql.net">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/branch/main/graph/badge.svg" alt="CodeCov Status" /></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://www.nuget.org/packages/Octokit.GraphQL">
    <img src="http://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Octokit.GraphQL.svg" alt="NuGet" /></a>
</p>

Octokit.GraphQL.NET gives you access to the GitHub GraphQL API from .NET. It exposes the GitHub GraphQL API as a strongly-typed LINQ-like API, aiming to follow the GraphQL query syntax as closely as possible, which giving the benefits of strong typing in your favorite .NET language.

> [!NOTE]
> This software is currently in beta. There are few things left, and there might be bugs - be warned!

## Getting started

To learn more about GitHub GraphQL API, visit [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/graphql/overview)

To install the package from the command line, run the following command:

```ps1
Install-Package Octokit.GraphQL -IncludePrerelease
```

## Usage scenarios

```cs
using Octokit.GraphQL;
using static Octokit.GraphQL.Variable;

// Authenticate with a PAT with a scope 'read:user'
var connection = new Connection(new("Octokit.GraphQL.Net.SampleApp", "1.0"), "LOGGED_IN_GITHUB_USER_TOKEN");

var query = new Query()
    .RepositoryOwner(Var("owner"))
    .Repository(Var("name"))
    .Select(repo => new
    {
        repo.Id,
        repo.Name,
        repo.Owner.Login,
        repo.IsFork,
        repo.IsPrivate,
    }).Compile();

var vars = new Dictionary<string, object>
{
    { "owner", "octokit" },
    { "name", "octokit.graphql.net" },
};

var result =  await connection.Run(query, vars);

Console.WriteLine(result.Login + " & " + result.Name + " Rocks!");
```

```cs
using Octokit.GraphQL;
using Octokit.GraphQL.Model;
using System;
using System.Linq;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

// Authenticate with a PAT with a scope 'read:user'
var connection = new Connection(new("Octokit.GraphQL.Net.SampleApp", "1.0"), "LOGGED_IN_GITHUB_USER_TOKEN");

// A query to list out who you are actively sponsoring
// That auto pages through all sponsors
var query = new Query()
    .Viewer
    .SponsorshipsAsSponsor()
    .AllPages()
    .Select(sponsoring => new
    {
        User = sponsoring.Sponsorable
            .Cast<User>()
            .Select(x => new
            {
                x.Login,
                x.Name,
                x.Id
            }.Single()
    }).Compile();

// Queries from the GraphQL API end point
var result = await connection.Run(query);

// Check if sponsoring 'warrenbuckley'
var activeSponsor = result.SingleOrDefault(x => x.User.Login.ToLowerInvariant() == "warrenbuckley");
if(activeSponsor != null)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Thanks for sponsoring Warren");
}
```

## Running tests

### 1️. Prerequisites

Ensure you have following components:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Visual Studio and the .NET SDK](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/)

### 2️. Git

Clone the repository:

```git
git clone https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net
```

### 3️. Test the project

- Open `Octokit.GraphQL.sln`.
- Set the Startup Project to  `Octokit.GraphQL.UnitTests` or another test project as appropriate
- Build with `DEBUG|x64` (or `DEBUG|Any CPU`)

## License

Copyright (c) 2018 - present GitHub Inc.

Licensed under the MIT license as stated in the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

📝 Add contributing section to README
Signed-off-by: Lamparter <notlamparter@outlook.com>

readme.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Octokit.GraphQL.NET</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/actions/workflows/dotnetcore.yml">
    <img src="https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/actions/workflows/dotnetcore.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI Status" /></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://codecov.io/gh/octokit/octokit.graphql.net">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/branch/main/graph/badge.svg" alt="CodeCov Status" /></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://www.nuget.org/packages/Octokit.GraphQL">
    <img src="http://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Octokit.GraphQL.svg" alt="NuGet" /></a>
</p>

Octokit.GraphQL.NET gives you access to the GitHub GraphQL API from .NET. It exposes the GitHub GraphQL API as a strongly-typed LINQ-like API, aiming to follow the GraphQL query syntax as closely as possible, which giving the benefits of strong typing in your favorite .NET language.

> [!NOTE]
> This software is currently in beta. There are few things left, and there might be bugs - be warned!

## Getting started

To learn more about GitHub GraphQL API, visit [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/graphql/overview)

To install the package from the command line, run the following command:

```ps1
Install-Package Octokit.GraphQL -IncludePrerelease
```

## Usage scenarios

```cs
using Octokit.GraphQL;
using static Octokit.GraphQL.Variable;

// Authenticate with a PAT with a scope 'read:user'
var connection = new Connection(new("Octokit.GraphQL.Net.SampleApp", "1.0"), "LOGGED_IN_GITHUB_USER_TOKEN");

var query = new Query()
    .RepositoryOwner(Var("owner"))
    .Repository(Var("name"))
    .Select(repo => new
    {
        repo.Id,
        repo.Name,
        repo.Owner.Login,
        repo.IsFork,
        repo.IsPrivate,
    }).Compile();

var vars = new Dictionary<string, object>
{
    { "owner", "octokit" },
    { "name", "octokit.graphql.net" },
};

var result =  await connection.Run(query, vars);

Console.WriteLine(result.Login + " & " + result.Name + " Rocks!");
```

```cs
using Octokit.GraphQL;
using Octokit.GraphQL.Model;
using System;
using System.Linq;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

// Authenticate with a PAT with a scope 'read:user'
var connection = new Connection(new("Octokit.GraphQL.Net.SampleApp", "1.0"), "LOGGED_IN_GITHUB_USER_TOKEN");

// A query to list out who you are actively sponsoring
// That auto pages through all sponsors
var query = new Query()
    .Viewer
    .SponsorshipsAsSponsor()
    .AllPages()
    .Select(sponsoring => new
    {
        User = sponsoring.Sponsorable
            .Cast<User>()
            .Select(x => new
            {
                x.Login,
                x.Name,
                x.Id
            }.Single()
    }).Compile();

// Queries from the GraphQL API end point
var result = await connection.Run(query);

// Check if sponsoring 'warrenbuckley'
var activeSponsor = result.SingleOrDefault(x => x.User.Login.ToLowerInvariant() == "warrenbuckley");
if(activeSponsor != null)
{
    Console.WriteLine("Thanks for sponsoring Warren");
}
```

## Contributing & Feedback

There are multiple ways to participate in the community:

- Upvote popular feature requests
- [Submit a new feature](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/pulls)
- [File bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/issues/new/choose).
- Review source [code changes](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net/commits)

## Running tests

### 1️. Prerequisites

Ensure you have following components:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Visual Studio and the .NET SDK](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/)

### 2️. Git

Clone the repository:

```git
git clone https://github.com/octokit/octokit.graphql.net
```

### 3️. Test the project

- Open `Octokit.GraphQL.sln`.
- Set the Startup Project to  `Octokit.GraphQL.UnitTests` or another test project as appropriate
- Build with `DEBUG|x64` (or `DEBUG|Any CPU`)

## License

Copyright (c) 2018 - present GitHub Inc.

Licensed under the MIT license as stated in the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md).
